---
name: ai
---

Artificial Intelligence
-----------------------

The AI team uses a modular approach to break down complex challenges into manageable parts. This strategy enhances the reliability, robustness, and overall efficiency of autonomous decision-making systems. It allows for parallel and individual development of each module, improving the overall productivity of our team.

### Perception

Our Perception team plays a vital role in object identification. Through the application of advanced computer vision techniques and deep learning models, we optimally detect buoy shapes and colors with a high degree of accuracy. To recognize objects and gauge their distances, we utilize the latest sensor technologies, providing highly accurate mapping and a comprehensive understanding of the environment around the vessel.

### Task Planning

The Task Planning team is responsible for strategizing the next move of the vessel. By generating waypoints that direct the vessel's navigation, we are effective in navigating through complex obstacles and challenges. Our dedicated decision-making systems allow us to adapt to various navigational tasks, thereby improving the efficiency and productivity of our operations.

### Navigation & Controls

The Nav & Controls subteam uses the waypoints generated by the Task Planning team to create the best path for the vessel. By employing path-finding algorithms and various sensors, we ensure a smooth, accurate, and efficient path is laid out. We also factor in environmental conditions such as wind and waves, guaranteeing the vessel's stable and safe movement along the desired path. Our team makes sure to maintain the vessel's position, velocity, and acceleration regardless of environmental factors.